pre-notes: just added the basic access class, with simple roles. Need unit tests for these.

NextForm
===
NextForm is a PHP based form generator for application developers. NextForm is designed to
solve some common problems with online forms:

- Most forms are a mix of PHP, HTML, and the templating
language of the enclosing application. It's hard to format these files for readability.
- Forms are tightly coupled to a specific CSS framework. Adapting to framework
changes is more difficult than it should be, and maintaining multiple frameworks can be
a major headache.
- Applications frequently need to several highly similar forms, each with
variations depending on the environment or the user viewing the form. If a single form accounts
for multiple user contexts, it can be riddled with conditionals that make the code
difficult to understand and maintain.
- Frameworks can do a good job of presentation and validation, but tend to not offer
much support for interactions between form elements.

Too many forms are brittle, insecure, difficult to maintain, and a barrier to progress.

NextForm separates form generation into a data schema, form definitions, and rendering
engines. This offers many benefits:

- Several forms can use elements from the data schema without redefining them
each time.
- Form definitions are greatly simplified. In the simplest case, all that is required is
a list of fields on the form.
- A single form definition can be used for multiple access levels.
- Multiple rendering engines allow the form to be generated for different CSS/JS frameworks
without modification.
- Applications can dynamically modify forms, adding or removing fields, or change how data
is presented (for example by converting a list of checkboxes to a multi-select dropdown).

Data schemas and forms can be defined in JSON or YAML files, or dynamically generated in
PHP.


The Data Schema
---
The schema has provisions for data visibility based on a simple access
control system. Data elements can be read/write, read only, hidden, or not present
depending on the user's permissions.
- Schemas can be loaded form JSON, YAML, or generated by the application.

A data schema specification defines the elements that can be assembled into forms.

Data elements are organized into segments. The intent is that segments map to objects used
to load or store data, but this is not a requirement. A segment contains a collection of
scalar properties.

Each property has a name that is unique within its segment. Required fields specify how the
property is defined in terms of a data store (type, size, etc.), and how the property should
be displayed. Optional fields define the text labels associated with the property and
access control rules.

```json
{
    "name": "duration",
    "store": {
        "type": "int",
        "size": "10"
    },
    "labels": {
        "after": "Seconds",
        "before": "Delay time:",
        "inner": "0"
    },
    "presentation": {
        "cols": "1",
        "type": "text"
    }
}
```

Form layouts
===

A form is a collection of form elements.

Form elements can be simple or compound.

There are two types of compound elements: cells and groups. A cell encapsulates a set of
elements that are presented as a single unit. A group is a collection of related fields.
Groups can contain cells, cells cannot contain groups.
